# CS Notes 08/26

### [Daily Notes](https://faculty.ncssm.edu/~morrison/currentClasses/4240/Aug/26Aug21/)

Relational Operators
--------------------

- `is` operator, compares an object's id.
- `is not`, opposite of `is`

String Pool
-----------

Strings created (not too big) are stored in the string pool. Allows you to save memory since strings are __immutable__.

Allows strings to compare equality of identity (`id()`) instead of each character.

Small integers are also stored in the pool.


Lists
-----

```py
>>> x = []
>>> y = x
>>> y.append(5)
>>> x
[5]
>>> y
[5]
```

Both variables point to the same object, so both can change state.

Tuple
-----

```py
>>> x = (1, 2, 3)
>>> x
(1, 2, 3)
>>> x[0]
1
```

Tuples are __immutable__ lists


Sequences
---------

- Lists, tuples, and strings.
- Share indexing and slicing (and enumeration)
- Lists and tuples store memory pointers while strings store continuos list of characters.
- Can use `len()` to determine the size of a sequence.
- `in` operator, checks to see if the left operand is inside of the right operand.
    - `3 in [1, 2, 3]` is `True`, `'a' in ['b', 'c', 'd']` is `False`
    - `in` for strings checks for continuos sub-strings.
- Negative indexes start from the back of the sequence.
- You can assign a slice of a list to a list.
- Sequences have iterators which determine how they can be enumerated
- String is iterated by character while list/tuple is iterated by item.

Built-in Functions
------------------

- `max` and `min`, finds the largest/smallest value in the sequence passed to the function
- can find all function in docs

Method vs Function
------------------

- A method belongs to an object while a function does not belong to an object.
- Methods use dot-notation to be called on objects while functions take arguments.
- Methods depend on state of attached object.